I can't think of a better example of the
French influence on Vietnamese food than
the Bondi sandwich thin crusted baguette
braised meats pickled vegetables fresh
herbs all in one sandwich in this video
I'm going to show you one my favorite
bond me with sweet and savory red cooked
pork the first step for this bond meat
is to make a red cooked pork this is the
southern Chinese technique of cooking
pork in soy sauce and spices we have a 1
pound piece of pork shoulder cut into
two pieces dark soy sauce light soy
sauce these are really the ingredients
that give it the color hence the term
red cooking Chinese rice wine two sticks
of cinnamon and some star anise three
pieces lastly I'm going to add enough
water just to cover the pork after that
all I need to do is bring it up to a
boil
as it comes up to a boil I want to make
sure the pork is submerged if it isn't
I'll just add a little bit of water to
make sure it is covered then I want to
skim off any of the phone then we'll
lower this to a simmer for about an hour
until it's nearly tender one other
element of the sandwich that needs a
little advance prep is our carrot and
daikon pickles no need to cook them
really simple to make first thing I'm
going to start with is plain old
distilled vinegar 1/2 cup of that then
1/2 cup of granulated sugar 1/2 teaspoon
of kosher salt to list that a bit you
really don't need to whisk it until it's
dissolved then next I'll add my carrot
and daikon the carrot and daikon
julienne could be cut by hand or with a
mandolin I just need to give it a stir
now after these are stirred I like to
marinate them for at least 30 minutes
but really no longer than 24 hours if
you see there's still some granulated
sugar just come back and start in about
20 minutes and it'll be fine
after the pork has been simmering an
hour I want to test for doneness what I
like to do is give it a little push it
to be firm but it should be able to be
peeled back a little bit now that I've
checked that it's tender enough I'm
going to add my sugar I don't add the
sugar too early because the sugar can
pull the moisture out and cause the meat
to be tough give that a stir to dissolve
the sugar
I want to cool it in the liquid so it
stays moist and succulent then I'm going
to add six tablespoons of the pork
simmering liquid to the measuring cup
two tablespoons of fish sauce
I'm going to use that to season the
sandwich at the very end
now the carrots and daikon have picked
up that pickling mixture I'm going to
drain them get rid of most of the liquid
a few drops is okay it actually seasons
the sandwich
now that the meats cool let's slice it
get it ready for the sandwich take that
slice into thin strips you can see it's
got that red hue on the outside from the
soy sauce inside is cooked through so
now I've got everything ready let's make
the sandwich starting with a light thin
crusted baguette a spy scent and a half
lengthwise leaving the spine intact
first thing some mayonnaise the
mayonnaise I tend to spread on the top
half okay
second is my pate the pate I did add
some butter too so it was spreadable so
it's nice and soft that goes on the
bottom now this I'm making one sandwich
here the recipe makes two and I'll make
one there you have it so we've got our
Mayo our pate next I'm going to add my
lettuce leaves vietname sandwiches don't
have a lot of filling
I took the tip of the Greenleaf lettuce
and pulled those off and here next the
pickled vegetables which have been
drained with most of their liquid that
comes down the center notice the pickled
veggies is a fair amount of them they're
really a seasoning in here cucumbers
less of the cucumber than the julienned
vegetables the pickled ones
the shave scallions very light with the
scallions sprigs the cilantro the whole
sprigs not just the leaves some of the
tender stems are fine jalapeno slices
any chili will do those are evenly
distributed and they get no really spicy
bites and then lastly the pork place
that in here single layer and spread
them out make sure to fill up the whole
sandwich with that fill in any gaps and
lastly I'm gonna add a sprinkling of the
simmering mixture which is a mix with
the fish sauce I want to use four
tablespoons of that the sandwich is
complete as it is but if you can find it
pork flosses it's called which is cooked
pork which has been pounded and shaved
and sometimes fried it's a great
accompaniment to it salty roasted in
flavor and a little bit crispy so now
that the first sandwich is assembled
let's cut this and put it on the platter
and there it is the Vietnamese sandwich
sweet and salty spicy crispy everything
all in one sandwich I'm saving this last
one for me Wow everything comes together
in one bite it's like a party in your
mouth